### 1.1 General concept

[The Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project (ISIMIP)](https://www.isimip.org) provides a framework for the collation of a consistent set of climate impact data across sectors and scales. It also provides a unique opportunity for considering interactions between climate change impacts across sectors through consistent scenarios.

ISIMIP is intended to be structured in successive rounds connected to the different phases of the climate model intercomparison CMIP ([ISIMIP Mission & Implementation document](https://www.isimip.org/documents/355/MissionAndImplementation_12Sep2018.pdf)).

The main components of the ISIMIP framework are:

* A common set of climate and other forcing data which will be distributed via a central database;
* A common modelling protocol to ensure consistency across sectors and scales in terms of data, format and scenario set-up;
* A central archive where the output data will be collected and made available to the scientific community.

### 1.2 Simulation round

::: show simulation_round=ISIMIP3a

    #### Historical runs with climate-related forcing based on observations

    The ISIMIP3a part of the third round framework is dedicated to i) impact model evaluation and improvement and ii) detection and attribution of observed impacts according to the framework of IPCC AR5 Working Group II Chapter 18. To this end all simulations are forced by observed climate and socio-economic information and a de-trended version of the observed climate allowing for the generation of a “no climate change” baseline (counterfactual, if available).

    To ensure consistency between ISIMIP3a and ISIMIP3b as well as the different experiments within a simulation round, we require that modelling groups use the same version of an impact model for the experiments in ISIMIP3a and ISIMIP3b.

::: show simulation_round=ISIMIP3b

    #### GCM-based simulations assuming fixed 2015 direct human influences for the future

    The ISIMIP3b part of the third simulation round is dedicated to a quantification of climate-related risks at different levels of climate change and socio-economic conditions. The Group 1 simulations refer to the pre-industrial and historical period of the CMIP6-based climate simulations. Group 2 covers all future projections assuming fixed 2015 levels of socio-economic forcing and different future projections of climate (SSP126, SSP37 and SSP585). Group 3 simulations account for future changes in socio-economic drivers and are intended to be started once the corresponding direct human forcing input data is available.

    To ensure consistency between ISIMIP3a and ISIMIP3b as well as the different experiments within a simulation round, we require that modelling groups use the same version of an impact model for the experiments in ISIMIP3a and ISIMIP3b.

### 1.3 Simulation protocol

In this protocol we describe the [scenarios & experiments](#scenarios-experiments), the different [input datasets](#input-data), the [output variables](#output-data), and how to [report model results](#reporting-model-results).

Throughout the protocol we use **specifiers** that denote a particular scenario, experiment, variable or other parameter. We use these specifiers in the tables below, in the filenames of the input data sets, and ask you to use the same specifiers in your output files. More on reporting data can be found [at the end](#reporting-model-results) of this document.

