### Scenario specification

{{ table('climate_scenario') }}

{{ table('soc_scenario') }}

{{ table('sens_scenario') }}

#### General note regarding the `histsoc`, `2015soc` or `nat` labels

**Case 1:** Your model run only partly accounts for varying direct human forcings while another part of the the direct human forcing is considered constant or ignored -> Please label the simulation `histsoc`

**Case 2:** Your model run does not at all account for historical changes in direct human forcing but it does represent constant 2015 levels of direct human forcing for at least some direct human forcings -> Please label the simulations `2015soc`.

**Case 3:** Your model run does not at all account for direct human forcings because there is not direct human influence on the considered output variables -> Please label your simulation `histsoc`

The reasoning behind the case 3: If users are interested in a cross-sectoral analysis of the ISIMIP simulations the `histsoc`, `2015soc` or `nosoc` scenario label should guide them which simulations can be combined. So if e.g. changes in permafrost are not assumed to be affected by direct human forcing and therefore permafrost modules do not consider the associated drivers, a labeling by `histsoc` would guide the user that these runs can nevertheless be combined with the `histsoc` simulations in other sectors where the direct human forcing matters.

#### General note regarding sensitivity experiments

{% if simulation_round.specifier.endswith('a') %}

The sensitivity experiments are meant to be "artificial" deviations from the default settings. So for example if your model does not at all account for changes in CO₂ concentrations (no option to switch it on or off) the run should be labeled as “default” in the sensitivity specifier of the file name even if the run would be identical to the `1901co2` sensitivity setting.

{% else %}

The sensitivity experiments are meant to be "artificial" deviations from the default settings. So for example if your model does not at all account for changes in CO₂ concentrations (no option to switch it on or off) the run should be labeled as `default` in the sensitivity specifier of the file name even if the run would be identical to the `1850co2` sensitivity setting.

{% endif %}

### Scenario set-ups

{{ table('scenario') }}

#### Note regarding models requiring spin-up

{% if simulation_round.specifier.endswith('a') %}

For models requiring spin-up, we provide 100 years of spinclim data which is identical with the first 100 years of the counterclim data (files `climate/atmosphere/spinclim/<dataset>/<dataset>_spinclim_<variable>_global_daily_<start-year>_<start-year>.nc`). If more than 100 years of spin-up are needed, these data can be repeated as often as needed. Use historical CO2 concentration and varying DHF, for the transition period from spin-up to the start of the experiment (1860-1900). When using a longer spin-up period that (nominally) extends back further than 1860, please keep CO2 concentration and DHF constant at 1860 level until reaching the year corresponding to 1860.

{% else %}

For models requiring spin-up, please use the pre-industrial control data and CO₂ concentration and DHF fixed at 1850 levels for the spin up as long as needed. Please note that the "pre-industrial control run" from 1601-1849 is part of the regular experiments that should be reported and hence the spin-up has to be finished before that.

{% endif %}
