### General Notes

It is important that you comply precisely with the formatting specified below, in order to facilitate the analysis of your simulation results in the ISIMIP framework. Incorrect formatting can
seriously delay the analysis. The ISIMIP Team will be glad to assist with the preparation of these files if necessary.

For questions or clarifications, please contact info@isimip.org or the data manager directly (buechner@pik‐potsdam.de) before submitting files.

### Format for gridded data

Gridded data should be returned in NetCDF4 format with a compression level of at least 5. It is important that you comply precisely with the formatting specified below, in order to facilitate the analysis of your simulation results in the ISIMIP framework. Incorrect formatting can seriously delay the analysis or lead to errors. For questions or clarifications, please contact the ISIMIP coordination team. Further information and instructions follow in this section and at the ISIMIP website (<https://www.isimip.org/protocol/preparing-simulation-files/>).

Global data are to be submitted for the ranges **-89.75** to **89.75** degrees latitude, and **-179.75** to **179.75** degrees longitude, i.e. 360 rows and 720 columns, or 259200 grid cells total. Please report the output data row-wise starting at 89.75 and -179.75, and ending at -89.75 and 179.75. The standard horizontal resolution is 0.5x0.5 degrees, corresponding to the resolution of the climate input data; with reporting intervals of 0.5 degrees_east for longitude, and of -0.5 degrees_north for latitude. Submitting data at lower resolution than 0.5x0.5 degrees is only encouraged in exceptional cases; in those cases, the above numbers will change accordingly (e.g., a 1x1 degree grid would have 180 rows, from 89.5 to -89.5 degrees latitude).

Antarctica and Greenland do not have to be simulated. If you are limited by data (e.g. soil data) you can also reduce the latitude range of your simulations, however, the minimal latitude range to be simulated is -60 to + 67 degrees. Important: When reporting results the whole grid as specified above should be reported – pixels you did not simulate should be filled with the missing value marker (`1.e+20f`).

Regional model teams should interpolate their output data to the same, common 0.5x0.5 degree grid as described above, and submit in the same NetCDF file format. Each file should cover the entire globe (even though the filename should contain the name of the region), with any grid cells outside the simulated region to be filled with missing values (1.e+20f). This will not lead to significantly larger files as long as NetCDF compression is used. Exception: Single (one-point) timeseries do not have to be embedded into the 0.5x0.5 degree grid, but should be reported as NetCDF4 files with the coordinates of the point included in the header information (e.g., `lon : 172.84 degrees_east`; `lat : 47.08 degrees_north`).

Note that submitting results in this format is important to facilitate comparison among different models and between global and regional scale. The ISIMIP coordination team will be glad to assist with the preparation of these files if necessary. In addition to the global file, regional model teams may submit a second file containing the output data in their default format. This may be e.g. on a finer resolution than 0.5°, on a non-regular grid, etc.

### Format for non-gridded data

Data that is not defined on a grid, such as point-based data (e.g. for particular gauges or data for world regions), should nonetheless be reported in NetCDF format (e.g. as a separate file for each gauge or region), each file containing a single time series. The ISIMIP coordination team will assist with the preparation of these files where necessary. It is important that all ISIMIP results exist in NetCDF format, in order to be compatible with the structure and functionalities of the ESGF repository.

### Variables with layers

For variables that can be simulated on multiple fixed layers (e.g. variables with DBH classes in Forest Models, or with fixed depth layers in the Lakes sector), we require the following:

* The level dimension has a specific name per sector; i.e. `levlak` for the lakes sector, `lev` for the water sector, `dbh_class` for forest models, or `growing_season` for agriculture
* For variables where a level cover a range, like soil depth or dbh class, specify the lower and upper boundaries of every layer, with data corresponding to the midpoint of each layer (e.g. dbh class or depth layer)
  * The boundaries of the top/bottom layers will end up in a variable called `depth_bnds`, and the midpoint will be in `depth`
  * `depth` and `depth_bnds` are double
* For variables where a level has the function of an index, like growing season, it is not necessary to indicate boundaries
* For variables where it is possible to have layers or not (e.g. variable `harv` in Forest Models), add global attribute `dbhclass_profile` and use label `true` if the file contains layers (e.g. multiple dbh classes) or `false` depending on the case

For variables simulated on depth layers varying over time and/or over space (e.g. soil moisture on layers that can get deeper or shallower over time, or have different depths at different locations), we distinguish between variables where the levels vary per grid cell, and variables where the levels vary over time. For such variables, we additionally require the following:

* For variables where depth of layers varies over time, add global attribute `time_varying_soil_layer_depth` and use label `true` or `false` depending on the case
* For variables where depth of layers varies per grid cell, add global attribute `location_varying_soil_layer_depth` and use label `true` or `false` depending on the case

More information and example outputs are available on the ISIMIP website, <https://www.isimip.org> (Protocol -> Important information about preparing your simulation files).

### Time intervals

Please submit your output data in chunks according to the Table ?? depending on the time step of the output variable you are reporting (the requested time step for each variable is listed in the sector-specific tables).

### Submission of simulations

Data should be submitted to a dedicated file system on a central server located at DKRZ Hamburg. More information on how to access this server and on formatting of your files is available on the ISIMIP website at https://www.isimip.org/protocol/preparing-simulation-files/. The ISIMIP coordination team will gladly provide assistance upon request.

### Documentation of models and experiments

In addition to adhering to the common settings described in this protocol, it is essential to keep track of further details regarding the configuration of each individual model. This ensures that the simulation results can appropriately be interpreted by authors of multi-model studies, and that these can remain transparent and usable for a long time into the future. For this purpose, the ISIMIP coordination team provides a questionnaire that all modelling teams are asked to answer. The questionnaire is accessible online through the ISIMIP website; for assistance please write to info@isimip.org.

### Time slices for individual files

For time slices holding global daily data, files should cover 10 years starting in the second year of a decade and end in the first year of the next decade (e.g. 1991-2000). If the time period starts after the second year of the decade, or ends before the first year of the new decade, the start or end year of the time period should be used as the start or end year of the file respectively. Data on a lower than daily temporal resolution or non-global data should be submitted for the entire simulation period in single files per variable.

*Examples of time slices for individual files with global daily data:*

* Pre-industrial: `1661_1670`, `1671_1680`, ..., `1851_1860`
* Historical: `1861_1870`, `1871_1880`, ..., `2001_2005`
* Future: `2006_2010`, `2011_2020`, ..., `2081_2090`, `2091_2099`
* Extended future: `2100_2100`, `2101_2110`, ..., `2281_2290`, `2291_2299`

*Time slices for individual files with non-global or non-daily data:*

* Pre-industrial: `1661_1860`
* Historical: `1861_2005`
* Future: `2006_2099`
* Extended future: `2100_2299`

### File names

File names consist of a series of identifiers, separated by underscores; see examples below. Things to note:

* Report one variable per file
* In filenames, use lowercase letters only
* Use underscore (`_`) to separate identifiers
* Variable names consist of a single word without hyphens or underscores
* Use hyphens (`-`) to separate strings within an identifier, e.g. in a model name
* NetCDF file extension is `.nc`
* Region, basin or site names: Where simulations are provided for a single station within a river basin, the tag should have the format `<basin>-<station>`.
* Possible timestep values for the {{ sector.title|lower }} sector are: {{ table('timestep') }}

The file name format is:

```
<modelname>_<climate-forcing>_<bias-correction>_<climate-scenario>_<soc‐scenario>_<variable>_<region>_<timestep>_<start‐year>_<end‐year>.nc
```

The following regular expression can be used to validate and parse the file name for the {{ sector.title|lower }} sector:

```
{{ pattern }}
```

Files should be uploaded in 10-year pieces. For the transition from the historical to the future
period (2005-2006), files should be separated, i.e. the identifiers would be 2001_2005 and
2006_2010.

For the forest simulations, no time slices are needed and the full simulation period can be
covered in one file.

For further instructions on file naming and formatting, please also refer to our [website](https://www.isimip.org/protocol/isimip2b-files/#file-formats-and-meta-data).
